Technological and Higher Education Institute of Hong Kong
Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Information and Communications Technology
DIT5498/DIT5499 Final Year Project
Guide for 2026-2027
Introduction
The Final Year Project (FYP) is an integral part of the ICT programme, successful completion of which is necessary to satisfy the regulations for the award of an Honours degree. All students in the final year of the degree programme are required to complete the project individually. The project is divided into two modules, one for each semester in the final year, and it contributes 6 credit points in total.
FYP Aims (Official)
The FYP aims at helping students integrate, apply and synthesise prior discipline knowledge and learning from multiple and diverse topic areas. It enables students to apply academic knowledge and technical skills to proposed research topics in information and communications technology. The FYP further develops and consolidates students’ presentation skills and other graduate attributes, by promoting meaningful connections among general education, the academic major and work-integrated experience.
Learning Outcomes (Official)
On completion of the FYP, students are expected to be able to:
1. Integrate, apply and synthesise prior knowledge and learning from multiple and diverse topic areas to solve technically industrial and academic problems in information and communications technology;
2. Investigate and reflect on the discrepancies between theory and practice;
3. Consolidate and develop new computing approaches to professional practices in software engineering and network management;
4. Transit the capstone experience to graduate competence; and
5. Conduct critically self-reflexive evaluation on personal commitment to information and communications technology profession and needs for life-long learning.
Learning and Teaching Strategies (Official)
The Final Year Project (FYP) module will provide a student centred project-based learning approach in a professional or industrial setting. Each FYP will be overseen by a project advisor with overall coordination by the module convenor to ensure continuity and relevance of the project subject matter. The project titles and information will be coordinated at the start of each academic year to ensure quality and consistency. Weekly consultations will be carried out with regular review of progress and achievement of milestones.
Assessment Strategies (Official)
Assessment will be criteria-based. Assessment tasks will include an Initial Project Proposal, an Interim Report, a Prototyping with Demonstration, a Final Report and a Viva Presentation. The following abilities will be assessed:
1. Ability to clearly specify statement of the research problem and associated objectives with comprehensive rational relating to information and communications technology issues;
2. Ability to integrate, apply and synthesis prior knowledge and learning from multiple and diverse topic areas to solve technically industrial and academic problems in information and communications technology;
3. Ability to investigate and reflect on the discrepancies between theory and practice;
4. Ability to consolidate and develop new computing approaches to professional practices in software engineering and network;
5. Ability to conduct critically self-reflexive evaluation on personal commitment to information and communications technology profession and needs for life-long learning;
6. Ability to transit the capstone experience to graduate competence management; and
7. Ability to present outcomes appropriately in a format suitable for thesis.
Choosing FYP Topic and Preferred Advisor
Students will select their preferred advisor, before deciding the project topic. Select your preferred advisor using the form provided in Moodle. There are 4 advisors available.
Advisor
Area
Email
CHEONG Kai Yuen
Data Security
Computer Graphics
kycheong@thei.edu.hk
LAU Ho Chuen Tommy
Software Engineering
Internet of Things
tommyhclau@thei.edu.hk
LUI Chun Wang Winko
Artificial Intelligence
Robotics
winko@thei.edu.hk
TANG King Fai
System Architecture
Network Security
kingfaitang@thei.edu.hk
You may discuss with all the potential advisors before deciding. The matching result announcement will be put on Moodle. The tentative FYP Topic, which can be changed later on, should be decided by yourself with the help of your advisor. The timeline will be announced on Moodle and the tentative dates are stated below.
Action Item
Deadline (Tentative)
Deadline to select preferred advisor
14 September 2026
Advisor announcement
16 September 2026
Decision of tentative FYP topic (acknowledged by the FYP advisor)
30 September 2026
Assessment
In the first semester, DIT5498 assessment will include an Initial Proposal, an Interim Report, and a Prototyping with Demonstration. In the second semester, DIT5499 assessment will include a Final Report and a Viva Presentation. The deadlines below are tentative, to be confirmed via Moodle.
DIT5498
Task
Marks
Deadline (Tentative)
Marker
Details
Initial Proposal
30
12 October 2026
Your Advisor
Topic Definition;
Background Research;
Feasibility Study;
Workload Plan
Interim Report
30
23 November 2026
Your Advisor
Literature Review;
Methodology Design;
Progress Report
Prototyping with Demonstration
40
21 December 2026
All advisors
Demonstration of a working simple version of the project
DIT5499
Task
Marks
Deadline (Tentative)
Marker
Details
Final Report
70
14 May 2027
Your Advisor
Project Report;
Analysis of Results;
Evaluation and Review;
Source Code
Viva Presentation
30
14 May 2027
All Advisors
Demonstration of the completed work in a logical and professional way
Supervision Guide for Advisors and Students
The following guidelines for FYP supervision describe what the student(s) and the project advisor can expect from each other in the process of conducting the FYP and writing of the project report.
THE PROJECT ADVISOR MUST:
Be familiar with the relevant subjects and understand the professional requirements;
Advise the student(s) about the amount of hours of supervision which can be offered;
Be able to determine if the project topic is relevant and feasible;
Be prepared for meetings with the student and provide constructive criticism;
THE PROJECT ADVISOR CAN:
Be helpful in identifying and locating relevant literature;
Advise about the project work process and offer suggestions about how it can be improved;
Support the use of creative methods;
Provide information about the nature of the assessments;
THE PROJECT ADVISOR MUST NOT:
Have the function as a dictionary or work of reference;
Assist student(s) after the project deadline;
THE STUDENT MUST:
Research and understand the relevant subjects of the project;
Take the initiative to arrange meetings;
Hand in required deliverables at defined deadline;
Be well prepared before meeting with the project advisor;
Be aware of the limitation of availability of facility and equipment in campus;